The District

118. There shall be a District Executive Committee for each District of the Province which shall consist of all branches within the District.

119. Members of the District Executive Committees shall be elected to hold office for a maximum period of three years at a District Conference specially convened for the purpose by delegates representing each of the branches in the District.

120. The District Executive Council shall consist of forty-four (44) members constituted as follows:-
    (1) the Chairperson;
    (2) the Vice Chairperson;
    (3) the Secretary for Administration;
    (4) the Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Secretary for Security;
    (7) the Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (8) the Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (9) the Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (10) the Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (11) the Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (12) the Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (13) the Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (14) the Secretary for Education;
    (15) the Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (16) the Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (17) the Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (18) two (2) committee members;
    (19) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Secretary for Finance and Secretary for Commissariat of the District Women's League;
    (20) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Secretary for Finance and Secretary for Commissariat of the District Youth League;
    (21) fifteen (15) Vice Secretaries for posts referred to in subsections (3) to (17) above.

121. Any member holding an executive office in the Branch who is elected a member of the District Executive Committee shall, on being so elected, automatically cease to be an executive member of the Branch Committee.

122. The number of delegates from each Branch to the District Conference shall be determined by the Central Committee from time to time.

123. The District Executive Committee shall hold the District Conference at least twelve months before the Provincial Conference.

124. The District Executive Council shall meet at least once every month.

125. A majority of the membership of the District Executive Council shall constitute a quorum.

126. There shall be a District Inter-Branch meeting at least twice a year for purposes of reviewing Party programmes and projects or to discuss any other matters referred to it by the District Coordinating Committee and the Provincial Executive Council.