ARTICLE 26 – Province (Youth League)

Provincial Conferences of the Youth League
216. There shall be a Provincial Conference of the Youth League for each Province which shall be composed of:-
    (1) members of the Provincial Executive Committee of the Province;
    (2) such members or delegates representing each District in the Province as may from time to time be determined by the Central Committee.

Functions and Responsibilities of the Provincial Conferences of the Youth League
217. The main functions and responsibilities of the Provincial Conference shall be:-
    (1) to elect Heads of Departments in the Province;
    (2) to elect Deputy Heads of Departments.

Convening of Provincial Conference
218. (1) The Provincial Conference of the Youth League shall:-
        (i) convene in ordinary session once a year; and
        (ii) convene in extra-ordinary session at any time at the direction of the Central Committee.
    (2) More than half the number of the members of the Heads and Deputy Heads of Departments shall form a quorum.

Provincial Executive Committee
219. There shall be a Provincial Executive Committee of the Youth League in each Province which shall be composed of:-
    (1) the Provincial Chairman;
    (2) the Deputy Provincial Chairman;
    (3) the Provincial Secretary for Administration;
    (4) the Provincial Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Provincial Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Provincial Secretary for Security;
    (7) the Provincial Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (8) the Provincial Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (9) the Provincial Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (10) the Provincial Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (11) the Provincial Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (12) the Provincial Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (13) the Provincial Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (14) the Provincial Secretary for Education;
    (15) the Provincial Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (16) the Provincial Secretary for the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (17) the Provincial Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (18) deputies to officers referred to in subsections (3) to (17).

Functions and Responsibilities of Provincial Executive Committee
220. The Provincial Executive Committee of the Youth League shall be:-
    (1) responsible for the implementation of the youth policies of the Party;
    (2) responsible for the administration of the affairs of the Youth League;
    (3) accountable to the National Executive Committee of the Youth League.

Provincial Chairman of the Youth League
221. There shall be a Provincial Chairman of the Youth League whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to preside over meetings of the Provincial Conference and Provincial Executive Committee;
    (2) to prepare annual reports on the activities of the Youth League and submit the same to the Chairman of the Provincial Council (Main Wing).

Provincial Secretary for Administration
222. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Administration whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to keep and maintain minutes of meetings of the Provincial Conference and of the Provincial Executive Committee;
    (2) to receive and conduct correspondence relating to the overall administration of the Province;
    (3) to direct, supervise and co-ordinate efficient administration;
    (4) to submit reports to the National Secretary for the Youth League.

Provincial Secretary for Finance
223. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Finance whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to raise funds and mobilise resources;
    (2) to receive and deposit all funds into a bank account of the Party in accordance with the directives of the Secretary for Finance of the Party;
    (3) to keep accounts and records of all financial transactions;
    (4) to prepare and submit to the Secretary for Finance of the Party reports relating to the assets and liabilities at least once a year or as may be directed by the Secretary for Finance from time to time.

Provincial Secretary for Commissariat
224. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Commissariat whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to organise and supervise the implementation of Party political programmes at District Coordinating Committee, District and Branch levels;
    (2) to prepare and maintain records of membership at District, Branch and Cell/Village levels;
    (3) to consult and liaise with the National Secretary for Commissariat of the Party;
    (4) to prepare reports on matters relating to his or her functions and responsibilities and submit through the Chairman of the Province such reports to the National Political Commissar of the Youth League as may be directed.

Provincial Secretary for Security
225. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Security whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to advise the National Secretary for Security of the Youth League and National Secretary for Security of the Party on matters relating to security in the Province through the Chairman of the Province;
    (2) to carry out any new functions as may be directed from time to time by the Secretary for National Security of the Party and Secretary for Security of the Youth League.

Provincial Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare
226. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to administer and maintain a transport fleet;
    (2) to prepare and maintain records and reports of all property connected with transport;
    (3) to liaise and co-ordinate with the National Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare of the Youth League.

Provincial Secretary for Information and Publicity
227. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Information and Publicity whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to be Chief Information and Publicity Officer;
    (2) to organise and arrange publicity for the policies of the Party and activities of the Youth League;
    (3) to direct, control and co-ordinate activities relating to information and publicity at Provincial, District and Branch levels as often as may be directed by the National Secretary for the Youth League.

Provincial Secretary for Legal Affairs
228. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Legal Affairs whose functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to act as Legal Adviser;
    (2) to liaise with the Secretary for Legal Affairs of the Youth League;
    (3) where appropriate, to represent the Youth League and its members in the courts of law.

Provincial Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment
229. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to design and implement programmes and activities for indigenisation of the economy and economic empowerment of the previously economically discriminated and disadvantaged black majority;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with groups and individuals, non-governmental organisations and government agencies whose responsibility, role and function is to deal with the issues of economically discriminated and disadvantaged black majority.

Provincial Secretary for Production and Labour
230. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Production and Labour whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to establish co-operatives, commercial farms and estates in consultation with the Secretary for Production and Labour of the Youth League;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with agencies of the Government responsible for production and labour;
    (3) to promote self-reliance among the youth of the Province.

Provincial Secretary for Health and Child Welfare
231. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Health and Child Welfare whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to promote primary health care among the youth in the Province;
    (2) to promote and implement the Party's policy on the welfare of children;
    (3) to work in close consultation with Government agencies responsible for matters relating to health and child welfare.

Provincial Secretary for Economic Affairs
232. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Economic Affairs whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to formulate and implement economic strategies for co-ordinated development in the Province;
    (2) to be the Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Province.

Provincial Secretary for Gender and Culture
233. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Gender and Culture whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to ensure that the issues of gender balance and equity are addressed and incorporated in all economic and social spheres of the Party and society;
    (2) to ensure that Zimbabwean culture is addressed by the Party in all spheres of life and activities;
    (3) to liaise and co-ordinate with community groups, NGOs and Government agencies responsible for gender and culture.

Provincial Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons
234. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to draw up programmes and activities promoting the welfare of the disabled and disadvantaged persons;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with community groups, non-governmental organisations and Government agencies responsible for the welfare of the disabled and disadvantaged persons.

Provincial Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement
235. There shall be a Provincial Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to formulate strategies that ensure equitable redistribution of land and in particular to ensure that the youth have access to land;
    (2) to work in close consultation and co-ordination with Government agencies responsible for matters relating to Land Reform and Resettlement Programmes.

Provincial Deputy Chairman and Deputy Secretaries
236. There shall be a Provincial Deputy Chairman of the Youth League and a Deputy Secretary for each of the offices of Secretary specified above.