ARTICLE 18 – Organs and Structures of the Women\'s League

144. The Women's League shall consist of the following organs:-
    (1) the National Conference;
    (2) the National Assembly;
    (3) the National Executive Council;
    (4) the Provincial Executive Committee;
    (5) the District Executive Committee;
    (6) the Branch Executive Committee; and
    (7) the Cell/Village Committee.

National Conference
145. There shall be a National Conference which, subject to the overriding authority of the Central Committee of the Party, shall be the principal organ of the Women's League responsible for all matters of policy and shall be governed by the following provisions:-
    (1) the National Conference shall be composed of:-
        (a) members of the Provincial Executive Council of each Province;
        (b) such number of members from every District as the Central Committee may determine from time to time.
    (2) the National Conference shall have exclusive power and authority to elect members of the National Executive Council who shall be heads of department.
    (3) the National Conference may convene in extraordinary session at the instance of the Central Committee in consultation with the National Executive Council of the Women's League;
    (4) more than half the total membership of the National Conference shall form a quorum.

National Assembly
146. There shall be a National Assembly which shall be the principal deliberative organ of the Women's League on matters of policy and the following provisions shall govern its operations:-
    (1) the National Assembly shall be composed of:-
        (a) heads of departments;
        (b) deputy heads of departments;
        (c) heads of departments of the Provincial Executive Councils.
    (2) the main functions and responsibilities of the National Assembly shall be:-
        (a) to issue directives to all organs of the Women's League;
        (b) to supervise the implementation of the policies and directives of the Party;
        (c) to approve reports, including reports of the accounts and other financial affairs.
    (3) more than half the total membership of the National Assembly shall form a quorum.

National Executive Council
147. There shall be a National Executive Council which, subject to the overriding authority of the Central Committee of the Party, shall:-
    (1) be the principal organ for the implementation of the policies of the Party and the administration of the affairs of the Women's League;
    (2) be constituted by:-
        (a) the Secretary for Women's Affairs;
        (b) other Secretaries and Deputies as provided for hereunder;
        (c) Chairpersons of Provincial Executive Committees of the Women's League who shall be ex officio members;
    (3) convene in ordinary session once every two months;
    (4) have a quorum of more than half of the total membership;
    (5) convene in extraordinary session at any time with a quorum of more than half of the total membership.

Principal Officers
148. The Principal Officers of the Women's League shall be:-
    (1) the Secretary for Women's Affairs;
    (2) the Deputy Secretary for Women's Affairs;
    (3) the Secretary for Administration;
    (4) the Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Secretary for External Relations;
    (7) the Secretary for Security;
    (8) the Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (9) the Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (10) the Secretary for Legal Affairs and Women's Rights;
    (11) the Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (12) the Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (13) the Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (14) the Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (15) the Secretary for Education;
    (16) the Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (17) the Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (18) the Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (19) the Secretary for Science and Technology;
    (20) deputies to officers referred to in subsections (3) to (18).