National People's Congress
23. There shall be a National People's Congress (hereinafter referred to as "Congress") which shall be the supreme organ of the Party and shall be composed of:-
    (1) members of the Central Committee;
    (2) members of the National Consultative Assembly;
    (3) members of the Women's League;
    (4) members of the National Council of Youth League;
    (5) members of the Provincial Coordinating Committees;
    (6) members of the various Provincial Executive Councils; and
    (7) unless otherwise directed by the Central Committee, the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Political Commissar and Treasurer, two members from the Women's League and two members from the Youth League from every District Executive Council of the Party.

Powers and Functions
24. Congress shall:-
    (1) be the supreme policy-making organ of the Party;
    (2) elect the President and First Secretary;
    (3) elect members of the Central Committee;
    (4) formulate, pronounce and declare all policies of the Party;
    (5) formulate and issue directives, rules and regulations to all organs of the Party;
    (6) approve the financial statements of accounts;
    (7) be the supreme and ultimate authority for the implementation and supervision of the policies, directives, rules and regulations of the Party; and
    (8) have the power and authority to amend the Party Constitution.

Convening of Congress
25. Congress shall convene in ordinary session once every five years and the following provisions shall apply:-
    (1) the Secretary for Administration shall be the Secretary of the Presidium;
    (2) the Secretary for Administration shall, at least three months before the due date, send notices convening Congress to all members, which notice shall state the date and venue of Congress;
    (3) resolutions and decisions of Congress other than Constitutional amendments shall be passed by a simple majority;
    (4) resolutions emanating from the constituent organs of Congress for consideration at Congress shall be forwarded to the Secretary for Administration two months prior to the date of Congress;
    (5) the said resolutions shall be circulated to the said constituent organs of Congress at least fourteen days prior to the date of Congress;
    (6) there shall be a Presidium consisting of the President and First Secretary, two Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries and the National Chairperson, who shall preside over proceedings of Congress as directed by the President and First Secretary of the Party; provided that following a dissolution of the Central Committee immediately preceding the election of a new Central Committee in terms of section 32 of this Constitution, the Presidium established under this section shall continue in office until the conclusion of the business of Congress;
    (7) the Central Committee shall formulate the necessary procedures for the execution of the business of Congress; and
    (8) half of the total membership of Congress shall form a quorum.

Extraordinary Congress
26. An extraordinary session of Congress may be convened-
    (1) whenever it is deemed necessary and at the instance of:-
        (a) the majority of the members of the Central Committee; or
        (b) the President and First Secretary, at the instance of not less than one third of members of the Central Committee; or
        (c) the President and First Secretary, at the instance of at least five Provincial Executive Councils by resolutions to that effect;
    (2) in the event of a vacancy occurring in the office of National President requiring the convening of an extraordinary session of Congress.

27. The President and First Secretary, on receipt of a resolution in terms of section 26(1) requesting an extraordinary session of Congress, shall forward the same to the Secretary for Administration.

28. The Secretary for Administration shall, on receipt of the said resolution, give at least six weeks notice convening an extraordinary session of Congress.

29. The Central Committee shall formulate the necessary procedures for the execution of the business of the extraordinary session of the Congress.

30. The extraordinary session of Congress shall deliberate only on those matters for which it has been specifically convened.

31. Three-quarters of the members of Congress shall form a quorum for the convening of the extraordinary session.