The Province

Provincial Coordinating Committee
82. There shall be a Provincial Coordinating Committee composed of:-
    (a) the Provincial Executive Council;
    (b) members of the Central Committee in the Province;
    (c) members of the National Consultative Assembly in the Province;
    (d) the Provincial Executive Committee of the Women's League;
    (e) the Provincial Executive Committee of the Youth League;
    (f) Party Members of Parliament from the Province;
    (g) the Chairpersons of District Coordinating Committees from the Province.

Powers and Functions
83. (1) The Provincial Coordinating Committee shall be chaired by the Chairperson of the Province and shall meet once every three months or as the situation may demand from time to time at the instance of either the Chairperson, the Provincial Executive Council, or at least one third of the members of the Central Committee and the National Consultative Assembly in the Province.
    (2) The functions of the Provincial Coordinating Committee shall be:-
        (a) to act as the Elections Directorate of the Province;
        (b) to monitor and recommend any political or development programmes and initiatives in the Province;
        (c) to foster an integrated approach to provincial issues between the Party, Government and non-governmental organisations.

The Joint Provincial Council
84. There shall be a Joint Provincial Council in each Province composed of:-
    (1) the Provincial Executive Council of the Party;
    (2) the Provincial Committee of the Women's League;
    (3) the Provincial Committee of the Youth League.

85. The main functions of the Joint Provincial Council shall be to co-ordinate the affairs of the three wings of the Party within the Province.

86. The Joint Provincial Council shall meet at least twice a year.

87. The Provincial Chairperson shall preside over the deliberations of the Joint Provincial Council.

88. A majority of the total membership shall form a quorum.

The Provincial Executive Council
89. There shall be a Provincial Executive Council for each Province which shall consist of forty-four (44) members as follows:-
    (1) the Chairperson;
    (2) the Vice Chairperson;
    (3) the Secretary;
    (4) the Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Secretary for Security;
    (7) the Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (8) the Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (9) the Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (10) the Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (11) the Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (12) the Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (13) the Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (14) the Secretary for Education;
    (15) the Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (16) the Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and the Disadvantaged Persons;
    (17) the Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (18) two (2) committee members;
    (19) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer and Commissar of the Provincial Women's League;
    (20) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer and Commissar of the Provincial Youth League;
    (21) fifteen (15) Vice Secretaries for offices listed in subsections (3) to (17) above.

90. Members of the Provincial Executive Council shall be elected for a maximum period of four years at a Provincial Conference specially convened for the purpose by delegates representing each of the Party Districts in the Province.

91. Any person holding executive office in the lower organs of the Party, namely the Branch, District Executive Council or District Coordinating Committee, and who is elected a member of the Provincial Executive Council shall, on being so elected, automatically cease to be an executive member of the Branch or District Committee, as the case may be.

92. The number of delegates from each District to the Provincial Conference shall be determined from time to time by the Central Committee.

93. The Provincial Executive Council shall hold the Provincial Conference at least twelve months before Congress.

94. A majority of the membership of the Provincial Executive Council shall constitute a quorum.

Powers and Functions
95. (1) The Provincial Executive Council shall be responsible for:-
        (a) the implementation of the Party decisions, directives, rules and regulations; and
        (b) the organisation of public meetings and provincial rallies of the Party.
    (2) The Provincial Executive Council shall meet at least once every month.

96. Each of the Provincial Heads of Departments shall exercise the functions specified in relation to their office.