The Political Bureau and the Secretariat of the Central Committee
39. There shall be a Political Bureau (hereafter referred to as "Politburo") which shall consist of the President and First Secretary of the Party, the two (2) Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries, the National Chairperson, the Heads of Departments and five (5) committee members appointed by the President and First Secretary under section 40. The President and First Secretary may, at his or her discretion, appoint any or all of the Heads of Departments listed below. If in the opinion of the President and First Secretary it is desirable to create additional departments to the ones listed below, he or she shall at his or her discretion add such departments and appoint Heads to the departments so created.
    (1) The Secretary for Administration;
    (2) The Secretary for Finance;
    (3) The Secretary for Commissariat;
    (4) The Secretary for External Relations;
    (5) The Secretary for National Security;
    (6) The Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (7) The Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (8) The Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (9) The Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (10) The Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (11) The Secretary for Health and Child Welfare and the Elderly;
    (12) The Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (13) The Secretary for Women's League;
    (14) The Secretary for Youth Affairs;
    (15) The Secretary for Education;
    (16) The Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (17) The Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (18) The Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (19) The Secretary for Science and Technology;
    (20) The Secretary for Business Liaison and Development;
    (21) The Secretary for Environment and Tourism.

Appointment of Members of the Politburo and the Deputy Heads of Departments
40. Soon after the election of the President and First Secretary and members of the Central Committee, the President and First Secretary of the Party shall, during the sitting of the Congress, appoint from the newly elected Central Committee, two (2) Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries, the National Chairperson, the Heads of Departments of the Politburo, the committee members of the Politburo and the deputies to the Heads of Departments.

41. The deputies to the Heads of Departments of the Politburo shall not sit in the Politburo.

Powers and Functions of the Politburo
42. The Politburo shall be the executive committee of the Central Committee and shall have the following powers and functions:-
    (1) act as the administrative organ of the Central Committee;
    (2) implement all decisions, directives, rules and regulations of the Central Committee;
    (3) be answerable to the Central Committee on all matters;
    (4) meet at least once a month in ordinary session;
    (5) meet in special session as determined by the President and First Secretary.

Meetings and Sessions of the Politburo
43. During the meetings and sessions of the Politburo:-
    (1) the President and First Secretary shall preside over the meeting of the Politburo provided that, in his or her absence, one of the Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries shall preside;
    (2) decisions of the Politburo shall be by simple majority;
    (3) the President and First Secretary or Chairperson shall have a casting vote;
    (4) two-thirds of the total membership of the Politburo shall constitute a quorum.