National and Subordinate Disciplinary Committees
63. There shall be established a National Disciplinary Committee of the Central Committee which shall have jurisdiction of first instance, appeal and review, comprising:-
    (1) the Party National Chairman who shall be Chairman of the Committee;
    (2) four other members of the Central Committee appointed by the Presidency for their ability, probity and integrity.

64. The National Disciplinary Committee may confirm, amend and reverse the decision of any lower disciplinary committee and may direct that any disciplinary proceedings shall be transferred to it without being completed or commenced by any subordinate Disciplinary Committee.

65. The National Disciplinary Committee shall conduct hearings informally but having proper regard to the principles of natural justice.

66. The National Disciplinary Committee shall submit a report to the Central Committee on each case so adjudicated.

67. The report shall include a summary of the evidence, the conclusion reached and penalty imposed.

68. The Central Committee may, on appeal or review, confirm, amend or reverse the decision of the National Disciplinary Committee.

69. A member shall have the right to be assisted or represented in the conduct of his or her case by any member of his or her own choice.

Ad Hoc Appeals Committee of Congress
70. During the sitting of Congress:-
    (1) Congress may create an Ad Hoc Appeals Committee to determine any appeals against the determination of the National Disciplinary Committee and any determination of the Central Committee itself.
    (2) The Ad Hoc Appeals Committee shall be composed of the following members:-
        (a) two from the Legal Affairs Committee, who are legally qualified where possible;
        (b) one from the Department of the Commissariat;
        (c) one from the National Disciplinary Committee;
        (d) one from the Department of National Security;
        (e) one from the Women's League; and
        (f) one from the Youth League;
        (g) one of the Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries who shall chair the Ad Hoc Appeals Committee of the Congress.

Provincial, District and Branch Disciplinary Committees
71. There shall be established Disciplinary Committees at the Branch, District and Provincial levels of the Party whose composition shall be as follows:-
    (1) the Vice Chairperson of the Branch, District or Province who shall be Chairperson of the Committee respectively;
    (2) the Political Commissar;
    (3) three other members of the Branch, District or Province appointed by Branch, District or Provincial Committees as the case may be, for their ability, probity and integrity.

72. Members of the District Coordinating Committee shall be subject to the discipline of the Disciplinary Committee of the Province.

73. All Disciplinary Committees of the Party shall conduct their hearings informally, but having proper regard to the principles of natural justice.

74. (1) Any member of the Party against whom disciplinary action is intended to be taken shall first be issued with a prohibition order and notice of charges in writing, for a period not exceeding fourteen (14) days in respect of the Branch and District and twenty-one (21) days in respect of the Province. The notice of charges shall state the charges and the date and venue of the hearing of the case by the appropriate disciplinary organ. The notice shall also inform the member being charged of his or her constitutional rights under Article 10 section 69.
    (2) After the hearing of the matter, each respective Disciplinary Committee shall hand down its decision in writing.
        Provided that the prohibition order against any member shall cease if the hearing does not take place as provided under this section unless, for good cause, an extension of time has been sought from the Chairperson of the Disciplinary Committee of the next superior organ before the time stipulated in the Constitution has elapsed.

75. Any member of the Party who has been found guilty of any disciplinary offences prescribed by the Constitution, rules and regulations shall be liable to any one or more of the following punishments:-
    (1) oral reprimand;
    (2) written reprimand;
    (3) a fine;
    (4) suspension or removal from holding any of the offices in the Party;
    (5) expulsion from membership of the Party.

76. Where the member has lodged his or her appeal timeously and the Appeals Committee has failed, without good cause, to hear the appeal, the charges shall fall away and may not be revived without the sanction of the Chairperson of the next superior organ.
    Provided that it shall not be competent for inferior Disciplinary Committees of the Party to expel a member, save only that they may, where deemed appropriate, recommend to the National Disciplinary Committee the expulsion of any member found guilty of a serious offence.

77. For the avoidance of doubt only the National Disciplinary Committee shall have the power to expel a member from the Party.

Appeals from decisions of Disciplinary Committees at Branch, District and District Coordinating Committee levels
78. In the case of appeals, the following provisions shall apply:-
    (1) any appeal against the decision of the Branch or District Disciplinary Committees or District Coordinating Committee in respect of minor offences attracting punishment provided for in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 75 shall lie to the District Committee or District Coordinating Committee or Provincial Disciplinary Committee, as the case may be. In all cases referred to under subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 75, and subject to section 64 of Article 10, the decision of the Provincial Disciplinary Committee shall be final;
    (2) save as provided under section 75 above, in all serious offences attracting punishment provided for under subsection (4) and recommendation for the expulsion from membership of the Party as provided under subsection (5) of section 75, appeals from the Branch Disciplinary Committee shall lie to the District Disciplinary Committee and appeals from the District Disciplinary Committee shall lie to the District Coordinating Committee and from the District Coordinating Committee shall lie to the Provincial Disciplinary Committee and only appeals from the Provincial Disciplinary Committee shall lie to the National Disciplinary Committee of the Central Committee;
    (3) appeals from the decisions of the National Disciplinary Committee shall lie in the first instance to the Central Committee and thereafter to the Ad Hoc Appeals Committee of Congress whose decisions shall be final;
    (4) any appeal against the decision of an inferior Disciplinary Committee shall be lodged with the Chairperson of the immediate superior Disciplinary Committee within fourteen days of the decision of the inferior Disciplinary Committee and such an appeal shall be heard and disposed of by such superior Disciplinary Committee within thirty days of the noting of the appeal;
    (5) any appeal against the decision of the Provincial Disciplinary Committee shall be lodged with the Chairperson of the National Disciplinary Committee within sixty days of the decision of the Provincial Disciplinary Committee and such appeal shall be heard and disposed of by the National Disciplinary Committee within ninety days of the noting of the appeal.