ARTICLE 25 – Principal Officers of the Youth League

Principal Officers
198. The Principal Officers of the Youth League shall be:-
    (1) the National Secretary for Youth Affairs;
    (2) the Deputy Secretary for Youth Affairs;
    (3) the Secretary for Administration;
    (4) the Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Secretary for External Relations;
    (7) the Secretary for Security;
    (8) the Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (9) the Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (10) the Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (11) the Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (12) the Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (13) the Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (14) the Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (15) the Secretary for Education;
    (16) the Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (17) the Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (18) the Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (19) deputies to officers referred to in subsections (3) to (18).

Functions and Responsibilities of the Principal Officers of the Youth League

199. There shall be a National Secretary for Youth Affairs whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to be Chief Political and Administration Officer;
    (2) to promote, foster and encourage self-reliance among the youth;
    (3) in consultation with the Secretary for External Relations, to establish and maintain international relations with organisations, institutions and solidarity groups whose aims and objectives are not inconsistent with those of the Party;
    (4) to preside over sessions of the National Conference, the National Assembly and the National Executive Committee of the Youth League.

200. There shall be a Secretary for Administration whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to conduct and receive all correspondence relating to the overall administration of the Youth League;
    (2) to act as Secretary to the National Conference, the National Assembly and National Executive Committee;
    (3) to keep and maintain minutes of sessions of the National Conference, the National Assembly and National Executive Committee;
    (4) to direct, supervise and co-ordinate the efficient administration of the Youth League.

201. There shall be a Secretary for Finance whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to raise funds and mobilise resources for the Youth League;
    (2) to receive and deposit funds into a bank account and to disburse the same in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Party;
    (3) to keep financial accounts and records of moveable and immoveable property assigned for use to the Youth League;
    (4) to prepare an annual financial statement of accounts and to submit externally audited accounts to the National Conference.

202. There shall be a Secretary for Commissariat whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to consult and liaise with the National Secretary for Commissariat;
    (2) to prepare and maintain records relating to membership;
    (3) to implement the Party's political programmes;
    (4) to direct, supervise and co-ordinate the activities of all lower organs of the Youth League.

203. There shall be a Secretary for External Relations whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to consult and liaise with the National Secretary for External Relations in the implementation of Party policies;
    (2) to work in close consultation and co-ordination with the National Secretary for External Relations to establish, promote and maintain friendly relations with all organisations, associations and solidarity groups whose aims and objects are not inconsistent with those of the Party;
    (3) to establish, promote and maintain sporting and cultural ties with the youth of friendly countries.

204. There shall be a Secretary for Security whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to advise on matters of security;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with the National Secretary for Security;
    (3) to be responsible for all matters of security and protocol;
    (4) to carry out such other functions as may be directed from time to time by the National Secretary for Security.

205. There shall be a Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to administer and maintain a transport fleet assigned to the Youth League;
    (2) to prepare and maintain records and reports of all property assigned to the Youth League;
    (3) to liaise with the National Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare.

206. There shall be a Secretary for Information and Publicity whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to consult and liaise with the National Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (2) to organise and arrange publicity of the policies of the Party and activities of the Youth League.

207. There shall be a Secretary for Legal Affairs whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to be the Legal Advisor of the Youth League on all legal and constitutional matters;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with the National Secretary for Legal Affairs.

208. There shall be a Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to design and implement programmes and activities for indigenisation of the economy and economic empowerment of the previously economically discriminated and disadvantaged black majority;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with groups and individuals, non-governmental organisations and government agencies whose responsibility, role and function is to deal with the issues of indigenisation and economic empowerment of the previously economically discriminated and disadvantaged black majority.

209. There shall be a Secretary for Production and Labour whose main functions and responsibilities shall be to establish co-operatives, commercial farms, estates and other productive undertakings in consultation with the National Secretary for Production and Labour.

210. There shall be a Secretary for Health and Child Welfare whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to promote primary health care programmes among the youth throughout Zimbabwe;
    (2) to promote and implement the Party's policy on the welfare of children;
    (3) to liaise with the National Secretary for Health and Child Welfare.

211. There shall be a Secretary for Economic Affairs whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to implement Party economic policies;
    (2) to formulate economic strategies;
    (3) to be the Chairperson of the Economic Committee of the Youth League.

212. There shall be a Secretary for Education whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to promote educational opportunities for the youth;
    (2) to liaise with the National Secretary for Education on matters relating to education for the youth.

213. There shall be a Secretary for Gender and Culture whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to ensure that the issues of gender balance and equity are addressed and incorporated in all economic and social spheres of the Party and society;
    (2) to ensure that Zimbabwean culture is addressed by the Party in all spheres of life and activities;
    (3) to liaise and co-ordinate with community groups, NGOs and Government agencies responsible for gender and culture.

214. There shall be a Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to draw up programmes and activities promoting the welfare of the disabled and disadvantaged persons;
    (2) to liaise and co-ordinate with community groups, non-governmental organisations and government agencies responsible for the welfare of the disabled and disadvantaged.

215. There shall be a Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement whose main functions and responsibilities shall be:-
    (1) to formulate strategies that ensure equitable redistribution of land and in particular to ensure that youth have access to land;
    (2) to work in close consultation and co-ordination with Government agencies responsible for matters relating to Land Reform and Resettlement Programmes.