16. Membership of the Party shall be open to:-
    (1) all citizens and residents of Zimbabwe who subscribe to the Constitution, aims, objectives and policies of the Party; and
    (2) any organisation, association or society whose members are citizens or residents of Zimbabwe and whose aims and objectives are not inconsistent with those of the Party.

17. In order to become a member, a person shall make application:-
    (1) to the local branch nearest to the place he or she is ordinarily resident or working;
    (2) in exceptional circumstances, to the Politburo through the Secretary for Administration, and any person whose application has been rejected may, through the Secretary for Administration, appeal to the Central Committee whose decision shall be final.

18. An organisation may acquire affiliate membership of the Party by making application to the Secretary for Administration.

19. On acceptance, a member shall pay the joining fee.

Rights of Members
20. Every member of the Party shall have the right:
    (1) to vote in any Party elections in accordance with such rules and regulations as the Central Committee shall determine from time to time;
    (2) to be elected to any office in the Party, subject to such rules and regulations as the Central Committee shall determine from time to time;
    (3) to have audience with any officer of the Party;
    (4) to make representations to any officer or organ of the Party in respect of any matter which affects his or her rights as a member;
    (5) to participate in meetings and other activities organised by the Party;
    (6) not to be subjected to arbitrary or vexatious treatment by those in authority over him or her;
    (7) to seek a remedy in respect of any grievance as a result of the action of any person in authority over him or her.

Duties of Members
21. Every member of the Party shall have the duty:-
    (1) to be loyal to the Party;
    (2) to observe and abide by the policies, rules and regulations of the Party;
    (3) to strive continuously to raise the level of his or her own political and social consciousness and understanding of Party policies;
    (4) to strengthen, promote and defend the Party and popularise its policies among the people;
    (5) to conduct himself or herself honestly and honourably in his or her dealings with the Party and the public and not to bring the Party into disrepute or ridicule; and
    (6) to pay regular subscriptions.