Central Committee
35. There shall be a Central Committee which shall be the principal organ of the Party in between Congress and shall consist of three hundred (300) members as follows:-
    (1) Four (4) members being:-
        (a) President and First Secretary, nominated by at least two Provinces and elected nationally by Party members for his or her probity, integrity and commitment to the Party, its ideology, values, principles and policies;
        (b) Two (2) Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries, appointed in accordance with the Unity Accord by the President and First Secretary for their skill, experience, probity, integrity and commitment to the Party, its ideology, values, principles and policies;
        (c) The National Chairperson of the Party, appointed by the President and First Secretary for his or her skill, experience, probity, integrity and commitment to the Party, its ideology, values, principles and policies.

36.
    (2) Ninety-four (94) members who shall be allocated to the Provinces in such a way and manner that each Province shall have a proportionate quota or number having regard to the results of the preceding General Election and/or as may be determined by the Central Committee from time to time.
    Provided that the respective Provincial Coordinating Committees shall nominate the candidates in an equitable way, in such a way that each Administrative District shall have at least one member elected to the Central Committee.
    (3) One hundred (100) members allocated on equal basis to Provinces;
    (4) The Secretary for Women's League;
    (5) The Secretary for Youth Affairs;
    (6) Twenty (20) members representing the Women's League nominated by the League at the National Women's Conference;
    (7) Twenty (20) members representing the Youth League nominated at the National Youth Conference;
    (8) Ten (10) members nominated by the President and First Secretary on account of their outstanding contribution to either the armed liberation struggle of the country and/or its development after Independence;
    (9) Fifty (50) members who shall be women allocated to the Provinces in such a way and manner that each Province shall have five members.

    For the avoidance of doubt, each Provincial Coordinating Committee shall act as the electoral college for the purpose of arriving at the nominations referred to in section 32(1).
    The manner in which candidates shall be nominated by the Provincial Coordinating Committees in terms of section 32(2) and 32(3) shall be guided by rules and regulations determined by the Central Committee from time to time.

    Any member of the Party other than Provincial Chairmen, who is elected or appointed a member of the Central Committee shall automatically cease to hold office in any subordinate organ of the Party. Where a vacancy occurs in the organ as a result of this provision, a by-election or co-option, as the case may be, shall be held or done to fill that vacancy.

Powers and Functions of the Central Committee
37. The Central Committee, being the highest organ of the Party in-between Congress and acting on behalf of Congress when Congress is not in session, shall have full plenary unfettered powers to:-
    (1) make rules, regulations and procedures to govern the conduct of the Party and its members;
    (2) implement all policies, resolutions, directives, decisions and programmes enunciated by Congress;
    (3) give directions, supervise and superintend all the functions of the Central Government in relation to the programmes as enunciated by Congress;
    (4) set up Committees, Institutions, Commissions and Enterprises in the name and on behalf of the Party;
    (5) convene Congress in ordinary and/or extraordinary session;
    (6) formulate the agenda, procedures and regulations for business of Congress;
    (7) meet once every three months in ordinary session or at any time in special or extraordinary sessions;
    (8) amend the Constitution, if deemed necessary, subject to ratification by Congress.

Sessions of Central Committee
38. The President and First Secretary of the Party or, in his or her absence, one of the Vice Presidents and Second Secretaries or the National Chairperson shall preside over the meeting of the Central Committee and at such a meeting:-
    (1) decisions of the Central Committee shall be by simple majority; and
    (2) a majority of the total membership shall form a quorum.