The Branch

127. There shall be a Branch Executive Committee for each Branch in the Province.

128. Members of the Branch Executive Committee shall be elected to hold office for a maximum period of two years at a Branch Conference specially convened for the purpose by such number of delegates representing each of the cells or villages in the Branch as may be determined by the Central Committee from time to time.

129. The Branch Executive Committee shall consist of forty-four (44) members constituted as follows:-
    (1) the Chairperson;
    (2) the Vice Chairperson;
    (3) the Secretary for Administration;
    (4) the Secretary for Finance;
    (5) the Secretary for Commissariat;
    (6) the Secretary for Security;
    (7) the Secretary for Transport and Social Welfare;
    (8) the Secretary for Information and Publicity;
    (9) the Secretary for Legal Affairs;
    (10) the Secretary for Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment;
    (11) the Secretary for Production and Labour;
    (12) the Secretary for Health and Child Welfare;
    (13) the Secretary for Economic Affairs;
    (14) the Secretary for Education;
    (15) the Secretary for Gender and Culture;
    (16) the Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons;
    (17) the Secretary for Land Reform and Resettlement;
    (18) two (2) committee members;
    (19) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Secretary for Finance and Secretary for Commissariat of the Branch Women's League;
    (20) five (5) members being the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Secretary for Finance and Secretary for Commissariat of the Branch Youth League;
    (21) fifteen (15) Vice Secretaries for posts referred to in subsections (3) to (17) above.

130. Any person holding an executive office in the Cell or Village Committee who is elected a member of the Branch Executive Committee shall, on being so elected, automatically cease to be an executive member of the Cell or Village Committee.

131. The number of delegates from each Cell or Village to the Branch Conference shall be determined by the Central Committee from time to time.

132. The Branch Executive Committee shall meet at least once a month.

133. In order to become a member, a person shall make application:-
    (1) to the local Branch nearest to the place where he or she is ordinarily resident or working;
    (2) directly to the Secretary for Administration in exceptional circumstances.

134. A majority of the membership of the Branch Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum.

135. The Branch Executive Committee shall hold office for a term of two years.